<h1>
    Lapland
</h1>
<p>
    is the largest and northernmost region of Finland. The 21 municipalities in the region cooperate in a Regional
    Council. Lapland borders the region of North Ostrobothnia in the south. It also borders the Gulf of Bothnia,
    Norrbotten County in Sweden, Troms and Finnmark County in Norway, and Murmansk Oblast and the Republic of Karelia in
    Russia. Topography varies from vast mires and forests of the South to fells in the North. The Arctic circle crosses
    Lapland, so polar phenomena such as the midnight sun and polar night can be seen in Lapland.

    Lapland's cold and wintry climate, coupled with its relative abundance of conifer trees such as pines and spruces,
    means that it has become associated with Christmas in some countries, most notably the United Kingdom, and holidays
    to Lapland are common towards the end of the year. However, Lapland region has developed its infrastructure for
    year-round tourism. For example, the 2019 snow-free period tourism grew more than the winter season.Rovaniemi is
    the main regional center of Lapland, and the Rovaniemi Airport is the third busiest airport in Finland. Besides
    tourism, other important sectors are trade, manufacturing and construction. Like Rovaniemi, Inari is also one
    of the most important tourist destinations in Lapland for foreign tourism.

    Lapland has been connected with the legendary "North Pole" home of Santa Claus since 1927, when Finnish radio host
    Markus Rautio said that Santa Clause lived on Korvatunturi, a fell in the region. Later, Rovaniemi staked a claim as
    Santa's "official hometown" and developed the Santa Claus Village attraction to encourage tourism
</p>

<h2>
    Geography
</h2>
<p>
    The area of the Lapland region is 100,367 km², which consists of 92,667 km² of dry land, 6,316 km² fresh water and
    1,383 km² of sea water.10 In the south it borders the Northern Ostrobothnia region, in the west Sweden, in the
    north and west Norway and in the east Russia. Its borders follow three rivers: Tana, Muonio and Torne. The largest
    lake is Lake Inari, 1,102 km².Highest point is on Halti, which reaches 1,324 m on the Finnish side
    of the border.

    The areas of Enontekiö and Utsjoki in northern Lapland are known as Fell-Lapland. The bulk and remaining Lapland is
    known as Forest-Lapland. Lake Inari, the many fens of the region and the Salla-Saariselkä mountains are all part of
    Forest-Lapland. Fell-Lapland lies in the fells of the Scandinavian Mountains. It is not made up of barren ground
    like blockfields but instead has a vegetation of birch forests, willow thickets or heath. Common soil types in
    Forest-Lapland are till and sand with conifer forests growing on top. These forests show little variation across
    Lapland. Compared to southern Finland forest tree species grow slower. Understory is typically made of blueberry,
    lichens, crowberry and ling.

    The landscape of large parts of Lapland is an inselberg plain.14 It has been suggested the inselberg plains were
    formed in the Late Cretaceous or Paleogene period by pediplanation or etchplanation. Relative to southern
    Finland Lapland stands out for its thick till cover.16A The hills and mountains are typically made up of
    resistant rocks like granite, gneiss, quartzite and amphibolite.13 The ice sheet that covered Finland
    intermittently during the Quaternary grew out from the Scandinavian Mountains.18 The central parts of the
    Fennoscandian ice sheet had cold-based conditions during times of maximum extent. This means that in areas like
    north-east Sweden and northern Finland pre-existing landforms and deposits escaped glacier erosion and are
    particularly well preserved at present.19 Northwest to southeast movement of the ice has left a field of aligned
    drumlins in central Lapland. Ribbed moraines found in the same area reflects a later west to east change in movement
    of the ice.19 During the last deglaciation ice in Lapland retreated from the north-east, east and southeast so
    that the lower course of the Tornio was the last part of Finland to be deglaciated 10,100 years ago. Present-day
    periglacial conditions in Lapland are reflected in the existence of numerous palsas, permafrost landforms developed
    on peat.

    The bedrock of Lapland belongs to the Karelian Domain occupying the bulk of the region, the Kola Domain in the
    northeast around Lake Inari and the Scandinavian Caledonides in the tip of Lapland's northwestern arm. With few
    exceptions rocks are of Archean and Proterozoic age. Granites, gneiss, metasediments and metavolcanics are common
    rocks while greenstone belts are recurring features. More rare rock associations include mafic and ultramafic
    layered intrusions and one of the world's oldest ophiolites.2122 The region hosts valuable deposits of gold,
    chromium, iron and phosphate
</p>
<h2>
    Climate
</h2>
<p>
    The very first snowflakes fall to the ground in late August or early September over the higher peaks. The first
    ground-covering snow arrives on average in October or late September. Permanent snow cover comes between mid-October
    and the end of November, significantly earlier than in southern Finland. The winter is long, approximately seven
    months. The snow cover is usually thickest in early April. Soon after that the snow cover starts to melt fast.
    The thickest snow cover ever was measured in Kilpisjärvi in 19 April 1997 and it was 190 cm. The annual mean
    temperature varies from a couple of degrees below zero in the northwest to a couple of degrees above zero in the
    southwest. Lapland exhibits a trend of increasing precipitation towards the south, with the
    dryest parts being located at the two arms.

    Summer months, the average temperature is consistently over 10°C. Heat waves with daily temperatures exceeding +25
    °C, occur average 5-10 days per summer in northern Finland
</p>

<h2>
    History
</h2>
<p>
    The area of Lapland was split between two counties of the Swedish Realm from 1634 to 1809. The northern and western
    areas were part of Västerbotten County, while the southern areas were part of Ostrobothnia
    County. The northern and western areas were transferred in 1809 to Oulu County, which
    became Oulu Province. Under the royalist constitution of Finland during the first half of 1918, Lapland was to
    become a Grand Principality and part of the inheritance of the proposed king of Finland. Lapland Province was
    separated from Oulu Province in 1938.

    During the Interim Peace and beginning of the Continuation War the government of Finland allowed the Nazi German
    Army to station itself in Lapland as a part of Operation Barbarossa. After Finland made a separate peace with the
    Soviet Union in 1944, the Soviet Union demanded that Finland expel the German army from its soil. The result was the
    Lapland War, during which almost the whole civilian population of Lapland was evacuated. The Germans used scorched
    earth tactics in Lapland, before they withdrew to Norway. Forty to forty-seven percent of the dwellings in Lapland
    and 417 kilometres of railroads were destroyed, 9,500 kilometres of roadways were mined,
    destroyed or were unusable, and 675 bridges and 3,700 kilometres of telephone lines were also destroyed.
    Ninety percent of Rovaniemi, the capital of Lapland, was burned to the ground, with only a few pre-war buildings
    surviving the destruction.

    After the Second World War, Petsamo municipality and part of Salla municipality were ceded to the Soviet Union. The
    decades following the war were a period of rebuilding, industrialization and fast economic growth. Large
    hydroelectric plants and mines were established and cities, roads and bridges were rebuilt from the destruction of
    the war. In the late 20th century the economy of Lapland started to decline, mines and factories became unprofitable
    and the population started to decline rapidly across most of the region.

    The provinces of Finland were abolished on 1 January 2010, but Lapland was reorganised as one of the new regions
    that replaced them
</p>